The best way to fix this is to change the activation function. Here's another one.
The hyperbolic tangent is given by this formula underneath e to the x minus e to the -x,
divided by e to the x plus e to the -x.
This one is similar to sigmoid,
but since their range is between -1 and 1,
the derivatives are larger.
This small difference actually led to
great advances in neural networks, believe it or not.
Another very popular activation function is the Rectified Linear Unit or ReLU.
This is a very simple function.
It only says, if you're positive,
I'll return the same value,
and if you're negative, I'll return 0.
Another way of seeing it is as the maximum between x and 0.
This function is used a lot instead of
the sigmoid and it can improve the training significantly without
sacrificing much accuracy since the derivative is 1 if the number is positive.
It's fascinating that this function,
which barely breaks linearity can lead to such complex non-linear solutions.
So now, with better activation functions,
when we multiply derivatives to obtain the derivative on any certain weight,
the products will be made of slightly larger numbers,
which will make the derivative less small and will allow us to do grading descent.
We'll represent the ReLU unit by the drawing of its function.
Here's an example of a multi-layer perceptron with a bunch of ReLU activation units.
Note that the last unit is a sigmoid since
our final output still needs to be a probability between 0 and 1.
However, if we let the final unit be a ReLU,
we can actually end up with regression models that predict their value.
This will be of use in the recurrent neural network section of the nano degree.